## What is a PM?
When we talk about about PMs what comes to mind? Well a Project Manager obviously, but what does it really mean to manage a project? Well it means various things but the roles and tasks can be boiled down to 3 main concepts: Organization and Time Management, Creative Problem Solving and Adaptability, and Motivation and Team Management

## Organization and Time Management
When it comes to any project the most constrained and valuable resource is time. There's just never enough time to do everything you want to do and project managers realize this. They understand that they're gonna have to make some tough calls on what to cut and how much time to spend on developing different features, but they can't start cutting at random. No, PMs need to be organized. They need to shcedule out all of the tasks that lay ahead and create an appropriate timeline to follow. It doesn't have to be perfect, as there will no doubt be some variance, but they at least need some sort of guideline for their team to follow and so they can provide a resonable estimate to the higher-ups. The best way to do this would be to break down end goals into tasks and sub-tasks that are more manageable and can be done on smaller chunks of time.

## Creative Problem Solving and Adaptability
No development cycle is perfect and there are bound to be problems that arise whether that be from friction withing the team or budgetary constraints. As the PM it is your job to resolve these conflicts as efficiently as possible to avoid further delays and costs. This could mean re-evaluating the tasks assigned and switching the roles given to team members or scrapping tasks for more manageable ones.

## Motivation and Team Management
While Managing the overall project is definitely key, it is not the only thing PMs are in charge of. They are also responsible for managing their teams and keeping them motivated. This means understanding the strengths and weaknesses of your team members and deciding what task they would be best suited for. This also includes performance reviews of your team members to make sure they are staying on task and keeping up with the timeline and figuring out why that might not be the case. It's about give take, listening to your team members and their concerns, and addressing them with your plans, whether that be pushing back deadlines or asking for more budget